
# COVID19 Data for Melbourne, Australia

COVID19 data scraped from Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) media releases from April 2020.

**Disclaimer: This material is for educational purposes only.**

## Data Sources

The DHHS media releases constitute a daily historical record of the total positive cases.  Unfortunately the data was not structured consistently, sometimes delivered as an unstructured list, incomplete tables, or different column counts.

The data is also presented in a more recent PowrerBI dashboard application.  Inspection of the application network traffic identified the 
JSON POST request and associated JSON response.  A limitation of the application is that it only shows the current data.  Information from previous days is not available.

## Data Processing

Data from media posts were processed as either lists or tables into local text files per day.

- lists were manually copied (cut/paste)
- tables were scraped from media posts

Each form was "cleaned" into a consistent csv format for subsequent analysis.

## Locality Data

Population and area data by locality was downloaded from the Australia Bureau of Statistics (ABS).  This data also includes economic features determined from the last census in 2016.

## Products

- 2020.04.04: initial plot of LGA population density vs normalised COVID19 cumulative positive count.
- 2020.07.06: as above, animated from April to July (excludes Jul 28 data: something in data screws up labels generated by geom_text_repel())

## Contributing

Comments and suggestions are welcome.  

## Links / References

- DHHS media releases: https://www.dhhs.vic.gov.au/media-hub-coronavirus-disease-covid-19
- ABS Socio-Economic Indexes for Areas (SEIFA): https://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mf/2033.0.55.001

## Licensing

The code in this project is licensed under MIT license.